COMPATIBILITY.md, before:

# Jinja2 Compatibility

This document tracks the differences between Jinja2 and MiniJinja and what
the state of compatiblity and future direction is.

## Syntax Differences

MiniJinja does not support line statements and the ability to customize the
delimiters.  Both of those are currently intentional to better leverage
the editor ecosystem which typically cannot deal with these reconfigured
Jinja templates.

## Runtime Differences

The biggest differences between MiniJinja and Jinja2 stem from the different
runtime environments.  Jinja2 leaks out a lot of the underlying Python engine
whereas MiniJinja implements it's own runtime data model.

The most significant differents are documented here:

### Python Methods

MiniJinja does not implement _any_ Python methods.  In particular this means
you cannot do `x.items()` to iterate over items.  For this particular case
both Jinja2 and MiniJinja now support `|items` for iteration instead.  Other
methods are rareful useful and filters should be used instead.

### Tuples

MiniJinja does not implement tuples.  The creation of tuples with tuple syntax
instead create lists.

### Keyword Arguments

MiniJinja maps keyword arguments to the creation of dictionaries which are passed
as last argument.  This is done as keyword arguments are not native to Rust and
mapping them to filter functions is tricky.  This also means that some filters in
MiniJinja do not accept the parameters with keyword arguments whereas in Jinja2
they do.

### Variadic Calls

MiniJinja does not support the `*args` and `**kwargs` syntax for calls.

### Undefined

The Jinja2 undefined type tracks the origin of creation, in MiniJinja the undefined
type is a singleton without further information.

### Context

The context in Jinja2 is a data source and the runtime system pulls some pieces of
data from the context as necessary.  This optimization is not particularly useful
in MiniJinja and as such is not performed.  This also means that in MiniJinja the
default behavior is to pass the current state of the context everywhere.

### Escaping

Jinja2 only supports HTML escaping, in MiniJinja it's intended to support other
forms of auto escaping as well.

## Blocks

### `{% for %}`

`for` works is at feature parity with Jinja2 with the exception of the
missing support for `loop.previtem` and `loop.nexitem`.  Supporting this
is possible but has not been implemented yet because it requires taking
a mutex for each loop iteration.

**Tracking issue:** [#47](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/issues/47)

### `{% if %}`

`if` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% extends %}`

`extends` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% block %}`

`block` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% include %}`

`include` mostly has feature parity with Jinja2 but some deliberate
distinctions were made.  The `without context` and `with context`
modifiers are intentionally not supported.  The context system of
MiniJinja is different as mentioned above.

### `{% import %}`

This tag is supported but the returned item is a map of the exported local
variables.  This means that the rendered content of the template is lost.

### `{% macro %}`

The macro tag works very similar to Jinja2 but with some differences.  Most
importantly the special `caller`, `varargs` and `kwargs` arguments are not
supported.  The external introspectable attributes `catch_kwargs`, `catch_varargs`
and `caller` are not supported.

### `{% call %}`

This tag is not supported.

### `{% with %}`

`with` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% set %}`

`set` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% filter %}`

`filter` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% autoescape %}`

`autoescape` has feature parity with Jinja2 with an undocumented extension.
Currently it's possible to provide the intended form of auto escaping to
the tag.  This is not documented because it's unclear if this behavior is
useful.

### `{% raw %}`

`raw` has feature parity with Jinja2.

## Expressions

Most expressions are supported from Jinja2.  The main difference for expressions
is that `foo["bar"]` and `foo.bar` have the same priority in MiniJinja whereas
in Jinja2 they are used to disambiguate against attributes of the underlying
Python objects.

Differences with expressions mostly stem from the underlying data model.  For
instance Jinja2 templates tend to use `{{ "string" % variable }}` to perform
string formatting which is not supported in MiniJinja.  Likewise not all filters
are available in MiniJinja or behave the same.

## Filters

MiniJinja supports many common Jinja2 filters but leaves out many which perform
dynamic invocation.  For instance `|map` and `|select` are not supported.  Likewise
many string formatting filters like `|xmlattr` or `|urlize` are missing.

Commit message:

Added support for unicode identifiers (#134)

COMPATIBILITY.md, after:

# Jinja2 Compatibility

This document tracks the differences between Jinja2 and MiniJinja and what
the state of compatiblity and future direction is.

## Syntax Differences

MiniJinja does not support line statements and the ability to customize the
delimiters.  Both of those are currently intentional to better leverage
the editor ecosystem which typically cannot deal with these reconfigured
Jinja templates.

MiniJinja by default does not allow unicode identifiers.  These need to be
turned on with the `unicode` feature to achieve parity with Jinja2.

## Runtime Differences

The biggest differences between MiniJinja and Jinja2 stem from the different
runtime environments.  Jinja2 leaks out a lot of the underlying Python engine
whereas MiniJinja implements it's own runtime data model.

The most significant differents are documented here:

### Python Methods

MiniJinja does not implement _any_ Python methods.  In particular this means
you cannot do `x.items()` to iterate over items.  For this particular case
both Jinja2 and MiniJinja now support `|items` for iteration instead.  Other
methods are rareful useful and filters should be used instead.

### Tuples

MiniJinja does not implement tuples.  The creation of tuples with tuple syntax
instead create lists.

### Keyword Arguments

MiniJinja maps keyword arguments to the creation of dictionaries which are passed
as last argument.  This is done as keyword arguments are not native to Rust and
mapping them to filter functions is tricky.  This also means that some filters in
MiniJinja do not accept the parameters with keyword arguments whereas in Jinja2
they do.

### Variadic Calls

MiniJinja does not support the `*args` and `**kwargs` syntax for calls.

### Undefined

The Jinja2 undefined type tracks the origin of creation, in MiniJinja the undefined
type is a singleton without further information.

### Context

The context in Jinja2 is a data source and the runtime system pulls some pieces of
data from the context as necessary.  This optimization is not particularly useful
in MiniJinja and as such is not performed.  This also means that in MiniJinja the
default behavior is to pass the current state of the context everywhere.

### Escaping

Jinja2 only supports HTML escaping, in MiniJinja it's intended to support other
forms of auto escaping as well.

## Blocks

### `{% for %}`

`for` works is at feature parity with Jinja2 with the exception of the
missing support for `loop.previtem` and `loop.nexitem`.  Supporting this
is possible but has not been implemented yet because it requires taking
a mutex for each loop iteration.

**Tracking issue:** [#47](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/issues/47)

### `{% if %}`

`if` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% extends %}`

`extends` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% block %}`

`block` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% include %}`

`include` mostly has feature parity with Jinja2 but some deliberate
distinctions were made.  The `without context` and `with context`
modifiers are intentionally not supported.  The context system of
MiniJinja is different as mentioned above.

### `{% import %}`

This tag is supported but the returned item is a map of the exported local
variables.  This means that the rendered content of the template is lost.

### `{% macro %}`

The macro tag works very similar to Jinja2 but with some differences.  Most
importantly the special `caller`, `varargs` and `kwargs` arguments are not
supported.  The external introspectable attributes `catch_kwargs`, `catch_varargs`
and `caller` are not supported.

### `{% call %}`

This tag is not supported.

### `{% with %}`

`with` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% set %}`

`set` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% filter %}`

`filter` has feature parity with Jinja2.

### `{% autoescape %}`

`autoescape` has feature parity with Jinja2 with an undocumented extension.
Currently it's possible to provide the intended form of auto escaping to
the tag.  This is not documented because it's unclear if this behavior is
useful.

### `{% raw %}`

`raw` has feature parity with Jinja2.

## Expressions

Most expressions are supported from Jinja2.  The main difference for expressions
is that `foo["bar"]` and `foo.bar` have the same priority in MiniJinja whereas
in Jinja2 they are used to disambiguate against attributes of the underlying
Python objects.

Differences with expressions mostly stem from the underlying data model.  For
instance Jinja2 templates tend to use `{{ "string" % variable }}` to perform
string formatting which is not supported in MiniJinja.  Likewise not all filters
are available in MiniJinja or behave the same.

## Filters

MiniJinja supports many common Jinja2 filters but leaves out many which perform
dynamic invocation.  For instance `|map` and `|select` are not supported.  Likewise
many string formatting filters like `|xmlattr` or `|urlize` are missing.
