minijinja-cli/README.md, before:

# minijinja-cli

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mitsuhiko/minijinja)](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/minijinja-cli.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/minijinja-cli)
[![rustc 1.63.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/rust-1.63%2B-orange.svg)](https://img.shields.io/badge/rust-1.63%2B-orange.svg)

`minijinja-cli` is a command line executable that uses
[MiniJinja](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja) to render Jinja2 templates
directly from the command line to stdout.

## Installation methods

You can install binaries automatically with the shell installer:

```
curl -sSfL https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-installer.sh | sh
```

This script detects what platform you're on and fetches an appropriate archive from GitHub
then unpacks the binaries and installs them to the first of the following locations:

* `$MINIJINJA_CLI_INSTALL_DIR/bin`
* `~/.local/bin`

To influence where it installs, you can set the `MINIJINJA_CLI_INSTALL_DIR` environment variable.

Or download a binary manually:

- [aarch64-apple-darwin](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.xz) (Apple Silicon macOS)
- [x86_64-apple-darwin](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.xz) (Intel macOS)
- [x86_64-pc-windows-msvc](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-x86_64-pc-widows-msvc.zip) (x64 Windows)
- [i686-pc-windows-msvc](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-i686-pc-widows-msvc.zip) (x86 Windows)
- [x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) (x64 Linux, GNU)
- [x86_64-unknown-linux-musl](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.xz) (x64 Linux, MUSL)
- [i686-unknown-linux-gnu](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-i686-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) (x86 Linux, GNU)
- [i686-unknown-linux-musl](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-i686-unknown-linux-musl.tar.xz) (x86 Linux, MUSL)
- [aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) (ARM64 Linux, GNU)
- [aarch64-unknown-linux-musl](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.xz) (ARM64 Linux, MUSL)

You can also compile it yourself with `cargo`:

```
cargo install minijinja-cli
```

And then run like this:

```
minijinja-cli my-template.j2 data.json
```

## Unofficial installation methods

You can also install it with [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)

```
brew install minijinja-cli
```

## Arguments and Options

`minijinja-cli` has two positional arguments to refer to files.  Either one of them can
be set to `-` to read from stdin.  This is the default for the template, but only one
can be set to stdin at once.

- `[TEMPLATE_FILE]`:
    the first argument is the filename of the template.  If not provided it defaults
    to `-` which means it loads the template from stdin.
- `[DATA_FILE]`:
    the second argument is the path to the data file.  This is a file which holds
    input variables that should be rendered.  Various file formats are supported.
    When data is read from `stdin`, `--format` must be specified as auto detection
    is based on file extensions.

MiniJinja supports a wide range of options, too long to mention here.  For the full help
use `--long-help` or `--help` for a brief summary.

## Formats

The following formats are supported:

- `json` (`*.json`, `*.json5`): JSON5 (or JSON if JSON5 is not compiled in)
- `yaml` (`*.yaml`, `*.yml`): YAML
- `toml` (`*.toml`): TOML
- `cbor` (`*.cbor`): CBOR
- `querystring` (`*.qs`): URL encoded query strings
- `ini` (`*.ini`, `*.conf`, `*.config`, `*.properties`): text only INI files

For most formats there is a pretty straightforward mapping into the template
context.  The only exception to this is currently INI files where sections are
effectively mandatory.  If keys are placed in the unnamed section, the second
is renamed to `default`.  You can use `--select` to make a section be implied:

```
minijinja-cli template.j2 input.ini --select default
```

Note that not all formats support all input types.  For instance querystring
and INI will only support strings for the most part.

## Config File

The config file is in TOML format.  By default the file in `~/.minijinja.toml` is loaded
but an alternative path can be supplied with the `--config-file` command line argument
or the `MINIJINJA_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable.

To see what the config file looks like, invoke `minijinja-cli --print-config` which will
print out the current loaded config as TOML (including defaults).

## Selecting

By default the input file is fed directly as context.  You can however also
select a sub-portion of this file.  For instance if you have a TOML file
where all variables are placed in the `values` section you normally need
to reference the values like so:

```jinja
{{ values.key }}
```

If you however invoke minijinja-cli with `--select=values` you can directly
reference the keys:

```jinja
{{ key }}
```

## Examples

Render a template with a string and integer variable:

```
minijinja-cli template.j2 -D name=World -D count:=3
```

Render a template string:

```
minijinja-cli -t "Hello {{ name }}" -D name=World
```

Render a template with variables from stdin:

```
echo '{"name": "World"}' | minijinja-cli -f json template.j2 -
```

Evaluate an expression and print the result:

```
minijinja-cli --env -E "ENV.HOME or ENV.USERPROFILE"
```

REPL:

```
minijinja-cli --repl -D name=World
MiniJinja Expression REPL
Type .help for help. Use .quit or ^D to exit.
>>> name|upper
"WORLD"
>>> range(3)
[0, 1, 2]
```

## Behavior

Templates can extend other templates or include them.  Paths are relative to the
parent template.  So when you are in `foo/bar.j2` and you include `utils.j2`
it will load `foo/utils.j2`.  Including of templates can be disabled for
security reasons with `--no-include`.

All filters and functions from MiniJinja and [`minijinja-contrib`](https://docs.rs/minijinja-contrib/)
are available.

Upon failure a stack trace is rendered to stderr.

The `repl` mode lets you execute MiniJinja expressions.

## Compile-Time Features

By default all features are enabled.  The following features can be explicitly
selected when the defaults are turned off:

* `yaml`: enables YAML support
* `toml`: enables TOML support (required for `--config-file` support)
* `cbor`: enables CBOR support
* `json5`: enables JSON5 support (instead of JSON)
* `querystring`: enables querystring support
* `ini`: enables INI support
* `datetime`: enables the date and time filters and `now()` function
* `completions`: enables the generation of completions
* `unicode`: enables the unicode identifier support
* `contrib`: enables the `minijinja_contrib` based functionality including the `--py-compat` flag
* `preserve_order`: enables order preservation for maps

Additionally if the `ASSET_OUT_DIR` environment variable is set during
compilation manpage (and optionally completions) are generated into that
folder.

## Sponsor

If you like the project and find it useful you can [become a
sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/mitsuhiko).

## License and Links

- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/issues)
- License: [Apache-2.0](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/blob/main/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add windows installer to CLI docs

minijinja-cli/README.md, after:

# minijinja-cli

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mitsuhiko/minijinja)](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/minijinja-cli.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/minijinja-cli)
[![rustc 1.63.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/rust-1.63%2B-orange.svg)](https://img.shields.io/badge/rust-1.63%2B-orange.svg)

`minijinja-cli` is a command line executable that uses
[MiniJinja](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja) to render Jinja2 templates
directly from the command line to stdout.

## Installation methods

You can install binaries automatically with the shell installer:

```
curl -sSfL https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-installer.sh | sh
```

Or on Windows:

```
powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-installer.ps1 | iex"
```

This script detects what platform you're on and fetches an appropriate archive from GitHub
then unpacks the binaries and installs them to the first of the following locations:

* `$MINIJINJA_CLI_INSTALL_DIR/bin`
* `~/.local/bin`

To influence where it installs, you can set the `MINIJINJA_CLI_INSTALL_DIR` environment variable.

Or download a binary manually:

- [aarch64-apple-darwin](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.xz) (Apple Silicon macOS)
- [x86_64-apple-darwin](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.xz) (Intel macOS)
- [x86_64-pc-windows-msvc](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-x86_64-pc-widows-msvc.zip) (x64 Windows)
- [i686-pc-windows-msvc](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-i686-pc-widows-msvc.zip) (x86 Windows)
- [x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) (x64 Linux, GNU)
- [x86_64-unknown-linux-musl](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.xz) (x64 Linux, MUSL)
- [i686-unknown-linux-gnu](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-i686-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) (x86 Linux, GNU)
- [i686-unknown-linux-musl](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-i686-unknown-linux-musl.tar.xz) (x86 Linux, MUSL)
- [aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) (ARM64 Linux, GNU)
- [aarch64-unknown-linux-musl](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/releases/latest/download/minijinja-cli-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.xz) (ARM64 Linux, MUSL)

You can also compile it yourself with `cargo`:

```
cargo install minijinja-cli
```

And then run like this:

```
minijinja-cli my-template.j2 data.json
```

## Unofficial installation methods

You can also install it with [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)

```
brew install minijinja-cli
```

## Arguments and Options

`minijinja-cli` has two positional arguments to refer to files.  Either one of them can
be set to `-` to read from stdin.  This is the default for the template, but only one
can be set to stdin at once.

- `[TEMPLATE_FILE]`:
    the first argument is the filename of the template.  If not provided it defaults
    to `-` which means it loads the template from stdin.
- `[DATA_FILE]`:
    the second argument is the path to the data file.  This is a file which holds
    input variables that should be rendered.  Various file formats are supported.
    When data is read from `stdin`, `--format` must be specified as auto detection
    is based on file extensions.

MiniJinja supports a wide range of options, too long to mention here.  For the full help
use `--long-help` or `--help` for a brief summary.

## Formats

The following formats are supported:

- `json` (`*.json`, `*.json5`): JSON5 (or JSON if JSON5 is not compiled in)
- `yaml` (`*.yaml`, `*.yml`): YAML
- `toml` (`*.toml`): TOML
- `cbor` (`*.cbor`): CBOR
- `querystring` (`*.qs`): URL encoded query strings
- `ini` (`*.ini`, `*.conf`, `*.config`, `*.properties`): text only INI files

For most formats there is a pretty straightforward mapping into the template
context.  The only exception to this is currently INI files where sections are
effectively mandatory.  If keys are placed in the unnamed section, the second
is renamed to `default`.  You can use `--select` to make a section be implied:

```
minijinja-cli template.j2 input.ini --select default
```

Note that not all formats support all input types.  For instance querystring
and INI will only support strings for the most part.

## Config File

The config file is in TOML format.  By default the file in `~/.minijinja.toml` is loaded
but an alternative path can be supplied with the `--config-file` command line argument
or the `MINIJINJA_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable.

To see what the config file looks like, invoke `minijinja-cli --print-config` which will
print out the current loaded config as TOML (including defaults).

## Selecting

By default the input file is fed directly as context.  You can however also
select a sub-portion of this file.  For instance if you have a TOML file
where all variables are placed in the `values` section you normally need
to reference the values like so:

```jinja
{{ values.key }}
```

If you however invoke minijinja-cli with `--select=values` you can directly
reference the keys:

```jinja
{{ key }}
```

## Examples

Render a template with a string and integer variable:

```
minijinja-cli template.j2 -D name=World -D count:=3
```

Render a template string:

```
minijinja-cli -t "Hello {{ name }}" -D name=World
```

Render a template with variables from stdin:

```
echo '{"name": "World"}' | minijinja-cli -f json template.j2 -
```

Evaluate an expression and print the result:

```
minijinja-cli --env -E "ENV.HOME or ENV.USERPROFILE"
```

REPL:

```
minijinja-cli --repl -D name=World
MiniJinja Expression REPL
Type .help for help. Use .quit or ^D to exit.
>>> name|upper
"WORLD"
>>> range(3)
[0, 1, 2]
```

## Behavior

Templates can extend other templates or include them.  Paths are relative to the
parent template.  So when you are in `foo/bar.j2` and you include `utils.j2`
it will load `foo/utils.j2`.  Including of templates can be disabled for
security reasons with `--no-include`.

All filters and functions from MiniJinja and [`minijinja-contrib`](https://docs.rs/minijinja-contrib/)
are available.

Upon failure a stack trace is rendered to stderr.

The `repl` mode lets you execute MiniJinja expressions.

## Compile-Time Features

By default all features are enabled.  The following features can be explicitly
selected when the defaults are turned off:

* `yaml`: enables YAML support
* `toml`: enables TOML support (required for `--config-file` support)
* `cbor`: enables CBOR support
* `json5`: enables JSON5 support (instead of JSON)
* `querystring`: enables querystring support
* `ini`: enables INI support
* `datetime`: enables the date and time filters and `now()` function
* `completions`: enables the generation of completions
* `unicode`: enables the unicode identifier support
* `contrib`: enables the `minijinja_contrib` based functionality including the `--py-compat` flag
* `preserve_order`: enables order preservation for maps

Additionally if the `ASSET_OUT_DIR` environment variable is set during
compilation manpage (and optionally completions) are generated into that
folder.

## Sponsor

If you like the project and find it useful you can [become a
sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/mitsuhiko).

## License and Links

- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/issues)
- License: [Apache-2.0](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/minijinja/blob/main/LICENSE)
